Chapter Photo Galleries
=======================

All photos are hosted on Facebook in albums on the APO Theta Upsilon
chapter's page.

Facebook Configuration
----------------------

In order to allow the website to access the photos in the APO page's
galleries an access token is needed. A user with administrative
privileges for the APO page needs to authorize the website to access
the page. To do so the user should go to
http://apo-cwru.appspot.com/facebook/admin


Then click on the add a new user link. This will start the
authentication with Facebook. The user will be redirected to a
Facebook page with a message asking for permissions. Upon clicking
accept the user will be redirected back to the websites Facebook
administration page. Now there should be a list of pages. Any page
with a check mark will be able to display albums on the website.

Editing Albums
--------------

By default all albums will be turned off. To turn on albums click on
the edit albums page. All possible albums will be displayed. Checking
the box next to the album will enable the album for display to all
members.

Clicking on the album name will bring the user to the edit page for
that album.

Approving Photos
----------------

Each album has an approve photos page. On this page photos can be set
to display when members view this album. Album information and photo
information can also be edited.

To approve a photo simply check the approve box underneath it. To
stop an album from being displayed uncheck the box. Then simply click
the save button.
