Member Profiles
===============

Member profiles allow members to learn more about each other. A list
of members can be displayed by clicking on the Members link in the
main menu.

Member List
-----------

Going to http://apo-cwru.appspot.com/members/list or clicking on the
members link in the members profile will bring the user to the members
list. The members list displays all members in the chapter along with
links to view their profiles.

Member Profile
--------------

Each member profile will display the user's avatar or the default
avatar picture if the user has not uploaded an avatar picture.  If the
user has not added any contact information then by default only the
user's name will be displayed. However, each user has the option of
adding email addresses, phone numbers, and addresses.

The user can display their own profile simply by clicking on the My
Profile link from the main menu.

Uploading an Avatar
-------------------

To upload an avatar you need to create a Gravatar account by going to
gravatar.com. Once your account is created just upload your desired
avatar. Then go to your profile and click on edit. Enter the email
address you used with your new Gravatar account in the avatar field
and click save. Once Gravatar updates your avatar will be displayed on
your profile page.

Editing Your Information
--------------------

Clicking on the edit button on your profile page will allow the user
to edit their own information. They can Change their name and add an
avatar picture.

Editing Your Contacts
---------------------

Clicking on the edit contacts link from the main edit profile page
will allow a user to add emails, phone numbers and addresses. Clicking
the add button will display a new form to add additional contact
information. Clicking delete next to an existing piece of contact
information will remove that contact information once the save button
is clicked.

